# 1. CHP analysis UK 2012

## DUKES

The following dashboard values have been taken from Digest of United Kingdom Energy Statistics (DUKES) 2013. The specific Tables used are indicated in the dashboard comments.

* The fuel allocation method used by your country's statistical agency
* Total heat production by CHPs    (estimate, only relevant for checks)
* Total fuel input into CHPs             (estimate, only relevant for checks)


## Irrelevant dashboard values for UK 2012

The following dashboard values are not relevant for UK 2012 as there is no autoproduction from CHPs for that sector and I have set them to 50%.

### Agriculture
* Percentage of heat from gas CHPs that is not sold* Percentage of heat from wood pellet CHPs that is not sold* Percentage of remaining CHP electricity production by gas CHPs
### Households* Percentage of heat from gas CHPs that is not sold* Percentage of heat from wood pellet CHPs that is not sold* Percentage of remaining CHP electricity production by gas CHPs

## Split between gas engine, turbine and combined cycle CHPs

DUKES provides some data on electricity generated by fuel and type of CHP installation. See [the source analysis](1_chp_source_analysis.xlsx) for the translation in the following dashboard values. We assume that this split is the same for the Energy Industry and Industry.

* Percentage of CHP electricity production by gas turbine CHPs* Percentage of CHP electricity production by gas engine CHPs* Percentage of CHP electricity production by gas combined cycle CHPs


## Other dashboard values
All other dashboard values have been set to best fit checks and results by fuel. This has been an iterative process.
## Debts

The installed capacities need to be matched with DUKES data by changing the full load hours.