# "Start here" Readme for DE 2011---This directory contains all uniform Input Data (see [nomenclature](../../../documentation/nomenclature.md) for an explanation of terms) that is needed to construct our DE 2011 dataset (in the 'output' folders within each analysis folder).Furthermore, all 'input' folders contain a CSV files that store 'dashboard inputs'. These inputs are read into the respective analysis and shape the energy flow of the 'DE 2011' dataset.Note that this directory only contains **Input Data**, but it does not provide documentation or sources for the DE 2011 dataset.If you want to know what the DE Input Data is based on (references, justifications), please go to the Germany [source_analyses](../../../source_analyses/de) folder.## Source analysis content treeAll source analyses mirror the research analyses. In other words: For every research analysis folder on the ETDataset repository, you will find a corresponding Source analysis folder for the specific country and year that justifies the inputs for that particular analysis.### 0. Preparation of IEA dataIEA data tables are prepared for the research analysis dataflow. A shift of solar PV generation is undertaken (from main activity sector to residences and services).### 1. CHP analysisThe CHP analysis corrects the IEA energy balance in certain ways: the IEA and ETM have a different understanding of sold/unsold heat in the context of CHPs. The IEA energy balance is manipulated to make it fit to the ETM definitions. Furthermore, the CHP analysis generates the fuel inputs and heat & electricity outputs of all the ETM's CHP converters.To fully characterise CHPs, the analysis also allows the user to adapt full load hours of CHPs (and thereby influence the installed capacities).### 2. PP_HP: Power and Heat plant analysisThe power and heat plant analysis assigns energy flows to certain types of power plants. The energy balance reveals how much electricity is produced per carrier, but electricity is produced by a mix of different plants types (e.g. gas turbines, gas combined cycle and conventional gas plants).Similarly to the CHP analysis, the PP_HP analysis also assigns FLH to power plants, which will determine the installed capacity per plant. Full load hours and installed capacities are very relevant in the ETM, for example in the calculation of the 'loss of load' or 'plant profitability'.This analysis also derives how much electricity is delivered by solar PV in the residential and services sector (based on the solar PV shift carried out in '0. preparation of IEA data'.### 3. Primary production analysisThe annual production or extraction of certain carriers is defined. The researcher has to define time curves that reveal how much coal, gas, oil etc. will be produced until 2050. Based on these numbers, the ETM will calculate howmuch of a carrier can be exported or might need to be imported in the future.The analysis sets certain maximum production limits for carriers like wood or waste.The analysis also derives how much biogas is produced in the presence and how much of that biogas is upgraded to green gas (which is blended in with the network gas).### 4a. Metal analysisThe metal sector is a sub sector of the industry sector. This analysis determines how much of the 'energy in industry' is consumed in the metal sector. Steel and aluminium production are taken into account.### 4b. Chemical industry analysisThe chemical sector is a sub sector of the industry sector. This analysis determines how much of the 'energy in industry' is consumed in the chemical industry. This analysis does not require any user input.### 5. IndustryThe industry analysis imports data from the metal sector (CSV file in the metal/output folder). This analysis does not require any user input.### 6. ResidencesThe IEA energy balance reveals how much energy is consumed in residences (households). The residence analysis generates a breakdown over technologies (how much is used in space heating, hot water, cooling etc. ). Furthermore, it refines these breakdowns into technology splits (how is space heating accomplished? gas boiler, electric heating etc. )Be aware that this analysis often asks for 'percentages of useful demand'. This can often be understood as a market share. As a researcher, you might often find that this research data is difficult to obtain.### 7. ServicesSimilarly to the residence analysis, the services analysis provides a breakdown of energy per application and space heating. Be aware that the dashboard works a bit different here than in the residence analysis. Since certain IEA energy flows can be assigned to a single technology in this sector, some energy flows are derived automatically and cannot be influenced by your input (e.g. the final demand for geothermal space heating).### 8. TransportThe energy balance is quite explicit about the energy use in transport (trucks, cars, trains etc. ). Nonetheless, certain carriers have to be assigned to certain technologies.### 9. AgricultureThis analysis requires only one user input. It is used to assign the final demand for electricity in agriculture to heating and other uses.### 10. OtherThis is the last analysis that deals with the energy flows reported by the energy balance. It collects all energy flows that the previous analyses have not yet dealt with. The other sector is a remainder category that ensure that the ETM does not overlook any energy flows.### 12. Area dataApart from defining energy flows, the ETM also needs to know several figures that are not of an energetic nature. For example, the ETM needs to know the population and size of a country.Area data is stored in a file called nl.ad or de.ad (country.ad). A research analysis that creates this file automatically after prompting user input is not yet available.## Shortcomings of the DE datasetWe did not perform extensive source analyses for the research analyses addressing the various sectors. The main purpose in setting up the DE dataset was to show that the research analyses could cope with a non-NL country. Many dashboard inputs are inspired by Quintel's 'old' DE dataset that was not based on this research analysis dataflow. Shortcomings of individual source analyses are mentioned directly in the source analysis.The ETM generates certain figures, which are not directly inputted into the dataset. By comparing these figures to the literature, the quality of a dataset can be judged upon:* **CO2 emissions**: The total CO2 emissions (and the reduction in comparison to 1990) are derived by the ETM. It turns out that they are about 100 MT CO2 too low in comparison to literature (should be ~800 MT). It is not clear why that is. A part can be explained by the metal sector, but there must be other reasons as well. (turning the metal sector off and aggregating the metal sector within the industry analysis will increase emissions)* **installed generation capacity**: The ETM calculates installed capacities of power plants (based on the input of the PP_HP and CHP analysis). The resulting capacities should be compared with the literature.** The following ETM modules have been disabled for the German module:*** **no merit order**: the DE version of the ETM runs without merit order. We do not yet have hourly profiles that represent demand, volatiles and must-run production in Germany.* We **disabled** a number of **modules** because of a lack of research data: * no employment * no network calculations * no agriculture sectorPotential improvements:Apart form the shortcomings mentioned above and in the individual source analyses, the following can be improved for the DE dataset:Generate a de.ad that is properly researched.There is no source analysis for the area data (de.ad).Some keys in the de.ad need to be mirrored correctly in this analysis. See also https://github.com/quintel/etdataset/issues/365 * services: there is no proper source analysis. All inputs are tweaked manually until checks are optimised. * transport: Research required that allows us to split demand for transport diesel over trucks and cars. * other: 4 IEA carriers are disregarded. which amount to ~ 5.6 PJ.